# Breast-Cancer-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning
In 2020, approximately 2.3 million women were diagnosed with breast cancer with a mortality rate of ~30%. According to the last 5 years' records, this has become the world's most prevalent cancer. Based on the above facts, effective breast cancer prediction using machine learning methods can help reduce the mortality rate, prevent cancer proliferating into later severe stages as well as curation of the affected people. The objective of this project was to identify an approximately accurate model to predict the incidence of breast cancer based on various patients' clinical records. Dataset from Data World containing tumor structure records is used. Necessary Exploratory Data Analysis was done and graphs like histogram, correlation matrix, pair plots, distribution plots and boxplots were plotted to find out hidden patterns in the data. Required Feature Engineering was done so that there is a cleaned dataset to start the solution. As part of Outlier handling, it was found out that the attributes having most outlier values correspond to malignant cases. Hence, those were not removed as that may lead to Type II error or False Negatives, that is the model may predict a malignant case as benign one which is detrimental. The dataset was split into train and test in order to apply ML. The Accuracy and F1 scores were checked for some ML models and selected the model with highest Accuracy and F1 score. Balanced the unbalanced data using SMOTE and found out revised Accuracy and F1 score. The confusion matrix was shown. The ROC Curve showed that the model has higher chance of predicting the probability that a medical case is malignant based on the AUC score of 1 which is much higher compared to no-skill line of 0.5.
